hey there everybody welcome to the sixth
video in my eight part
series about how to launch a podcast
my channel is all about impactful
communication and this is the first
eight part series i'm taking on
on communication this all stemmed from
an idea
i gave through my impactful
communication speech
which i called the rogan which is a
challenge that
people launch a podcast so i wanted to
create this eight part series to help
you through the process
of launching a podcast from start to
finish
in video one i told you why you should
launch a podcast in video two i told you
about the prep you should do before
launching a podcast
the third video was all about the
equipment that you need
to launch a podcast video number four
was about the script that will help
guide you through the podcast
the fifth video was the things to think
about before you reach out to a
potential interviewee
and this video is about recording the
actual podcast episode itself
if you're doing an in-person interview
with a slightly different process than
if you were interviewing somebody
online through something like zoom or
zencaster which i'll talk about in a
second but the in-person interview what
works best
is if you have two microphones which are
going through
a focusrite usb connection
into the computer through the focusrite
you can change
some of the settings directly on that
interface which is really beneficial
for me when i am interviewing somebody
in person i am running that
through adobe audition there are other
programs that you can use that aren't as
expensive as adobe audition there are
many options
out there i like audition i find it's
easy to use for editing audio
and i enjoy that product but choose
something that is right for you
there's pros and cons to whether you're
doing an in-person interview
versus whether you're doing an online
interview when you're doing an interview
in person one of the pros is that you
don't really have to worry about the
tech
issues you can look right at your
computer screen and make sure that the
audio is recording properly that you can
see the sound waves
and other than that if you can hear your
guests through your headphones because
remember in the equipment episode you're
supposed to wear headphones
then you know things are probably
recording correctly
and that is beneficial the difficult
part perhaps
is that when you're face to face with
somebody maybe they get more intimidated
especially if you have a little studio
set up and they haven't done
a face-to-face interview before it's a
bit of a daunting experience to be
interviewed and they might be nervous
and have some of
that uncertainty about how it's going to
go and they might have some shakiness to
their voice
what i encourage you to do if you're
sitting down face to face for an
interview
is don't jump right into it make sure
you're smiling make sure that you're
upbeat and and chat to them a little bit
make sure they know hey this is just a
conversation
if it's a pre-recorded interview let
them know if you screw up
i can fix this in the editing process
you don't have to worry too much
otherwise if it's a little mess up just
keep going because
in every conversation somebody might say
the wrong thing and then they'll just
correct themselves and keep going
and you want to make your podcast
conversation as natural as possible but
by
chatting to them beforehand to the
guests beforehand
it will make them a little more
comfortable see if they want a water or
something along those lines
make sure that they know about the
equipment that they don't want to be
hitting the mic
stand or or knocking the mic or doing
anything that's distracting if they have
papers with them
maybe encourage them not to be reading
off of their papers
because as i talked about in a previous
video the audience can tell
even if they're just listening they can
tell when the guest is reading off of a
piece of paper because of the sound of
their voice it's almost more monotone
when it comes to an online interview
one of the additional challenges that
you have is that there's that technology
factor
there are more things that could go
wrong people's internet tends to cut out
from time to time
you may run into some of those
challenges but just the same you want to
make sure that your guest is prepared
for those things
if it's a live interview give them an
idea of some of the questions that
you're going to ask them in advance so
that they're not
too off guard or feeling like they're
blindsided but
with that said have some flexibility in
your conversation as well to ask
follow-up questions that maybe
weren't prepared for but set your guest
up for success don't
try to trap them with a really tricky
question make sure that you're asking
them
things that they'll be able to speak to
and that you're carefully listening
throughout the conversation
if you're using something like zen
caster which is one that i use for the
re max hustle podcast
reppin it on this hoodie zen caster is
audio only you don't have
any video which is
tough because you can't see facial
expressions but it's good because it
really forces you to focus
on the audio side of things but there
are a few requirements for example
zencaster struggles a little bit when
people try to access it on a phone or an
ipad at least i've run into that
experience in the past
so you want to make sure your guest is
coming on with a laptop
for that circumstance likewise on a zoom
conversation
you want to make sure that they know all
of the audio settings that they're
familiar with zoom
after 2020 who isn't familiar with zoom
it seems like but maybe your guest
hasn't used it before
so don't assume that they're going to
for sure know how this platform works
give them as much information as
possible remind them
of your meeting time send them a
follow-up the day before and say hey
just checking in to make sure
that you got my calendar reminder for
our interview tomorrow at 10 am
really looking forward to it and when
you start the conversation
whether you're reading an intro often
off a script before you jump into the
conversation make sure
that your energy is upbeat that you're
smiling
as you talk into that microphone the
audience this is going to sound weird
but the audience can actually
hear when you're smiling they can tell
the difference
that is going to be contagious for your
guest if you come in like this
and say hi there jeff welcome to the
podcast
uh tell us a little bit about yourself
jeff's not gonna have a lot of energy
when he answers that but if i come into
it and i say
hey everyone welcome to my podcast i'm
so excited you're listening today i am
talking to
jeff who is an expert in his field i
list off a bunch of things jeff has done
jeff welcome to the podcast jeff right
away is going to have greater energy
that is going to match mine
and again it's gonna be funner funner
more fun
more enjoyable for your audience to
listen to that type of content
i hope this video on recording the
podcast episode has been beneficial like
i said
i use adobe audition for the in person i
use zencaster and zoom for the online
but there are tons of different programs
that you can use
and that you can research for whatever
suits you best
i hope this video was beneficial if you
haven't already checked the other videos
out
and you want to launch a podcast what
are you waiting for go check those
videos out
subscribe to my channel i am passionate
about impactful communication and i want
to help you be a better communicator
hit that notification bell hit the like
button comment below
do all of that stuff i'll be so happy
otherwise i will see you on the next
video